Here's my take.
Looking at
the crises
proliferating around the world, it's
clear that we are
in an age
of geopolitical tension
that resembles the Cold War.
A time
of constant,
continual threats to international order.
But this time, the West
is treating each of these threats
as one offs to be dealt
with separately in the hope that soon
normalcy will return.
But conflict is the new normal.
Look around.
The war is going badly for Ukraine,
which is critically outgunned
and outmanned
by its much larger adversary.
Its key advantage
access to Western arms
and money is in peril.
The US Congress
seems unwilling to pass legislation
to send in more arms and money.
The European Union is stepping in
and selling parts of the gap.
But Europe does not have
the military industrial complex
to send Ukraine the level of armaments it
needs to fight Russia.
Ukraine
Zombie has held out
heroically against Russia's onslaught.
But as a senior European
diplomat said to me recently,
Ukrainians are brave and bold,
but they are not supermen.
They will not be able to hold on
if they don't have weapons and supplies.
Putin is making sure
that he can keep the war going.
Getting arms from North Korea
and recruiting men from as far as Cuba.
He continues to benefit from the fact
that many of the world's major economies,
from China
and India to Turkey
and the Gulf states
are trading freely with Russia.
If Russia's aggression works, it turns up
a norm that has largely stood for years.
No change of borders by force.
Meanwhile, in the Middle East,
many believed
when the Gaza war began
that it would be short
and that Prime Minister
Netanyahu's government would fall.
Neither is likely the Israeli Defense
Forces, humiliated
by the surprise attack of October 7th,
are determined
to completely eradicate Hamas from Gaza.
That means months
more bombing, fighting and bulldozing.
The tensions and internal debates
that Israel's actions
will produce in other countries
will only rise
Bibi Netanyahu is going nowhere.
Most Israelis may dislike him,
but they approve of his war policies.
This week,
in a pointed rebuke
to international calls
to pursue
a two-State solution,
including from the US
and Britain,
Israel's Knesset approved
a resolution
declaring that it was opposed
to any unilateral recognition
of a Palestinian state
with 99 out of 120 votes.
Bibi's coalition, remember,
has only 64 members.
So many opposition parliamentarians
joined in.
One less notice
today has been in the north.
Israel has been striking and killing
Hezbollah militants
to the point that by one account
they have killed over 200 of them.
This campaign will continue
and might even accelerate.
The IDF's goal is to weaken
Hezbollah to the point
that the roughly 80,000 Israelis
who fled their homes
in northern Israel can return.
But at some point, Hezbollah
might respond forcefully,
which could trigger
an Israeli incursion into Lebanon,
truly widening the war
And then we have the
Houthies who have managed
to assert themselves
through a series of pinprick strikes
that, according to one consulting firm,
have reduced the number
of container vessels
through the Suez Canal
by about 72%
since they began in December.
American efforts to organize
an effective coalition to keep trade
flowing through the Red Sea have failed.
Its efforts
to respond to Houthi
attacks have not stopped the Houthis.
This failure is a blow to the credibility
of the United States,
guaranteeing the freedom of the seas.
A key component of the open
global economy
that's been built over two centuries.
First to the British Navy
and then the American.
And more threats
to maritime
underpinnings of that order
are on the horizon.
Russia and China
have both been building up the capacity
to cut undersea cables,
which are now an integral part
of the cloud on which data is stored
across the globe.
If the US can't deter a substate actor
like the Houthis
from its disruptive behavior
in the Red Sea,
what chances that have against powers
like China and Russia?
There are ways to address all
these problems,
but it requires a paradigm
shift in the Western world.
We are now in a high security age.
That means governments have to spend
significantly more on defense
and spend more efficiently.
The US took on the role
as guarantor
of the Freedom of the Seas in 1945
and has been master of the seas
ever since.
In the 1980s it had almost 600 ships,
but today it has fewer than 300.
Europe has lost
its military industrial complex
which allowed it
to produce munitions
on a near-constant basis
in these new, dangerous times.
Congressional Republicans have decided
to return to isolationism,
hoping that they can bury
their heads in the sand
and the problems will somehow go away.
It should be noted that
contrary to popular belief,
ostriches do not bury
their heads in the sand
to escape threats.
In fact,
it would lead to their asphyxiation.
Maybe the birds understand something.
Congressional Republicans don't
go to
CNN dot com slash opinions
for a link to my column this week.